[Music]
good morning and thank you very much for
having us yeah good morning and today
we're going to talk about museums and
the fiction and the need of the are for
the artists to reclaim fiction as an
exclusive domain and about decolonizing
our mind and we're going to start about
the Nefertiti HEC last project and we're
going to end to talk about our upcoming
project which we call currently fossil
futures and discussing extinction and
extraction and we're going to start with
a short video and you're also going to
end with a video and people have leave
some time in the end for questions and
discussion because we love it okay of
the Egyptian Queen Nefertiti which sits
in the Museum in Berlin rather than in
the vicinity of its creator
so the bust of Queen Nefertiti is a
3,000 year old work of art that was
found in Egypt by German archaeologists
in 1912 who discovered the house and the
workshop of the sculptor a man named
Formosa currently it's in a museum in
Berlin with limited access to the public
basically there are no photos allowed
and for years Germany and Egypt have
fought over its rightful location and
the officials even claimed that she was
illegally stolen now the Egyptians would
love to have that bus back but the
Germans have guarded its jealousy you
need banning photographs so it is pretty
amazing the two artists have succeeded
in taking a full 3d scan of the bust
here they are secretly scanning back in
October last year so two artists
secretly 3d scan the bus and release the
files to the public as a free download
although museums have already scanned a
pretty nice bust they actually don't
plan to make it public which seems kind
of
backwards because there's a lot of
museums around the world that are
hosting SCANA thawne's that's where they
let people use their smartphones to take
a bunch of pictures of things objects
and to make three scans of them now it
sounds a bit like Ocean's eleven or one
of these movies what I don't understand
is I mean this thing is obviously
guarded right and you must have been
there for what a few hours and how did
you not get cold I mean what were you
how did you disguise yourself this is
like pirate 3d printing folks so we
thought we would download the file and
3d printed ourselves on our 3d printer
we're amazed just how much detail was
captured in the model I mean every
little crack chip and scratch is fully
visible which is no surprise because the
mesh has a whopping nine million
polygons it's so detailed that if you
throw it in your slicing software
it'll probably crack short summaries or
we don't have to explain all this and we
can directly start I'm terribly sorry
that I'm not a native speaker so I will
go through my script here and but first
of all we bought as well to you some
data you can download it here it's if
you're interested in it's a precious
high density polygon mesh which is if we
know for everyone to use and a public
domain and and it's not long longer a
monopoly of the noise Museum in Berlin
where the artifact is until today and
where the data has been stored for eight
years and not been shared publicly we
felt we came to a point where we must
reclaim the museum as a public space
again and that's why we saw the need to
steal something to oppose the dominant
and state-funded narrative the media
named it civil disobedience a gesture of
clear defiance to institutional order or
the most ethical artists so we were so
worthy so what were the reaction we will
lead
when we when we leave the data at the
cars Communication Congress Europe's
largest target hacker convention we
didn't know if the public was actually
interested in accessing studying
printing or remix in the data now we
know what happens if you activate the
artifact there was thousands of
downloads within one day and countless
remixes as you see on the slides small
example the piece went viral
along with all the issues we were
referring to and there's a cover and it
was there were there was I and there was
coverage on every continent which means
there is certain relevance of any kind
of artifact no matter how ancient and
that the public wants to reclaim objects
as cultural Commons there was something
what is new
there was something else to the non
tangible object two months before we
released the data on the hacker
convention we physically repatriated the
bust back to where it was found but
before we exhibited the authentic 3d
print in Cairo in order to open the
discourse of space in Egyptian we
released the video you can see here
where we staged a very staged a second
point of the of the bust of Nefertiti
where and the possibility of such a find
isn't completely unlikely because it can
be assumed that the sculpted gnosis 3000
years ago had created several bus in
order to create certain impact with this
story we consulted dr. Monika Hanna it's
most renowned a big apologist when it
comes to fight against Ellis trading of
Antiquities he advised us how to stage
such an find
it was he it was she who published the
video for the first time on Twitter
asking the question what if another head
of Nefertiti had would been found that
created a vivid debate also because of
the weapon and drugs antiquities of the
third-largest
illegal market in the world with more
than six billion euro estimated
according to UNESCO the fetishization of
sacred staged artifact and the distance
ocation throughout the gift shops of our
museums is producing capital value for
illicit trading and looting of artifacts
when we exhibit exhibited via 3d print
in Cairo the object was not the object
was not a strict copy as a perfectly
perfectly painted replica which only
mimics the original but it showed a
cultural stowage it doesn't try to
conceal its origin as a technical
reproduction but embrace the value of
the inherent information without the
colonial patina after the exhibition our
after the exhibition art artistic
undertake undertaking was an open-end
pointing towards an opportunity and we
buried the bust in the Sahara in the
outskirts of Cairo as a poetic contact
to the excavation we delivered it back
to the desert as a locality as a you to
pose as a kind of
techno heritage as it was called in the
media - we believe due to our experience
with the Nefertiti heck that copies are
now slaves to the originals a new
discussion on the originality and truths
of data as well as material objects of
other cultures is necessary because in
the end one concludes that the
institutional practice of today's
museums and collections all around the
globe are co-opted the institutions are
world models of hierarchies the museum's
telling fictional stories sometimes even
without realizing it and their stories
because they so far control the
artifacts by the way of representation
frankly the museum is a cultural
institution our power structures they
were constructed to show the power of a
country where by processing things and
objects from all over the world was
likely possessing the world in a quite
literal way following following Badri
our thought we could sense this notion
until today and we think of the huge
cultural real estate project in Berlin
Berlin right now the Humboldt forum
currently in the making mixed with a
great deal of inherent institutional
self-preservation museums serve and
ideological wall by separating artifacts
from the origin and depriving people of
their historical memory in presenting
the history of the others from a truly
scientific standpoint
so we learned that the institution's
cling to their role as gatekeepers
towards cultural objects and it's data
actually and it seems that the changing
conditions by digital media have created
what we call rather than institutional
angst of losing control and of course
relevance so here you can see it's
unfortunately only in German what was
the reaction of the museum itself I
guess let me see I gotta talk about this
late a little bit more yes there was in
the first few months there was no
reaction at all just after New York
Times was requesting M for a quote on
this project several months later there
was a press release which you can see
here very much making visible this
institutional angst just a second I have
to sew the FMF ITT has other nests in
its title and we related a lot into this
disputing question of representation of
other cultures and Western museums and
colonialism itself because one can't
find a reflection about violent
entanglement of the museums and they're
in here in colonial Patna inside the
museum but isn't like representing the
other always violent like Edward side
asked so by publishing the data set of
the Nefertiti on a public domain the
question of ownership dissolves at least
in the digital realm but there is no
substitute whatsoever to a comprehensive
debate on the colonial past and presence
which is yet to be discussed in Europe's
Germans and the global North Museum and
all over the place actually
so by exhibiting the 3d printed bust in
Cairo we directly touched on the issue
of refrigeration but more important than
actual repatriation is a change of
mindset within Western museums that
updates there I have to say supremacist
point of view and MD their belief that
it's only them who have the capacity to
safeguard preserve and research the
objects
and we used as very also mentioned in
the beginning the phrase cultural
Commons extensively because especially
in the field of culture one cannot allow
it to become sheerly commodified yet
this is exactly what happens often and
public museums even on favor of
capitalizing their collections due to a
lack of funding in the case of Nefertiti
the head in the gift shop for example a
copy is sold for around nine thousand
euros per piece and yeah that's quite
something I guess and this is where the
problem lies and what we needs to be we
got renegotiated by the public and we
either value culture again or drift into
kind of a meaningless era so what we
truly believe after all this criticizing
our museums that they actually have the
potential to be relevant spaces for a
society and discourses but also that in
order to achieve that they have to move
on and reinvent themselves and a change
of course doesn't necessarily come from
the inside also us the artists and the
public actively needs to reclaim the
museum's as a public space space so we
are talking of course especially about
public museums so in our practice we
look at technology to try to figure out
the emancipatory potential which can be
like also crowdsourcing of knowledge or
bringing up alternatives canons and
narratives and the perspective of the
digital as a social practice and
cultural technique because so far all
around the Western world we see plenty
of small-scale and digitization
experiments coming and going but when
museums doesn't don't really risk much
just very few of these experiments also
articulate a deal or deal with the bias
of technology which we regard as crucial
as well the majority of people and
experts are not aware that technology is
not neutral but socially shaped yet
especially when we look at colonial
context this needs to be addressed and
reflected so in our upcoming project
where part of it will be in Tanzania
this is an image from the place and a
guru and we couldn't talk about this
later a little bit more when we have
time and the discussion
we will make use of augmented reality
due to several reasons first of all the
preference of mobile technology in East
Africa is remarkable and in addition
aaarh is not fully absorbed by the
traditional categories of Western the
culture and the stood out and inherent
cultural bias itself for this ya
technology facilitates in the best case
and not yet colonized tool of
communication and mediation the ubiquity
of the new media in terms of perception
has almost no geographical limitations
you can access anything anywhere yet any
new media derives from a particular
locality with its audio sink recedes of
stair culture of origin nevertheless all
of that is not about in indigenization
or a romanticized view of innovation and
technology rather about emancipated
narratives and explorations of the
digital and art the aim of the museum
should be to go beyond the predominantly
Western capitalist view that I quote
aside as a business thus what we try to
promote in our practice is to create new
and meaningful platforms of reor
presentation of the SAP I'll turn
instead of echoing the conventional this
term abhorred from sahaja rule yet
vicious museum and to admit that objects
and the museum's are actually political
of objects but then again who has access
to that kind of technology who has the
time to dig into it this is all the
conversation mostly happening inside
privileged societies or even specific
classes in those societies and that is
what is kind of disturbing about it we
are like in an age where words like
empathy or disruption for sure you hear
it every day here in San Francisco are
appropriated by large corporations and
where exactly this corporations partner
up with our public museums and
eventually profit and eventually profit
from the collections of the public
museums in an economic way and use the
digital assets of the museums because
some parts of technology are still just
too expensive too far away to be up
scares indeed they are so fancy that
it's just the industry enjoying a few
people paying a lot for divisive
schedules like this the our experience
recently created in the brilliant
Natural History Museum to ask this what
you can see here bringing in this case
dinosaurs to life means that the
exhibited objects are death in the first
place doesn't it or the example of the
mummy treated as a mere object the mummy
kind of treated as a mere object of
science in this case it was really ok to
scan a digitize this human remains and
exhibit them just like that without any
commentary or anything else so we the
museum's as we know them are dead
they host dead objects so for a passive
consuming entertained audience this
museums practice to us seems fairly
anachronistic and we are using the term
decolonizing quite a lot so it seems
worthwhile bringing up here a glimpse of
hands for North elaborations about it
for fun on and I quote struggles for
decolonization are first and foremost
about self ownership they are struggles
to repossess to take back if necessary
by force that which is ours
unconditionally and as such belongs to
us so this decolonization it's not a
comfortable process and in our practice
we actually go to the places outside
Europe and do the interventions there as
an act of what is called reefs entering
referring to an googy that yong-go so it
is about rejecting the assumption that
the modern West is the central root of
the world's consciousness and cultural
heritage or even the place of
universalism
but of course the same standard takes
effect for artists as well where one can
can observe the criticality in crisis
along with an art professionalization
which isn't conducive at all and what
Suzanna leaf called you can see here you
invited criticality the collaborations
between artists and museums which
eventually only re-emphasizes the
legitimacy of the
institutions think of the ethnographic
collections which nowadays regularly
invite artists to work with their
collections and to summarize at this
point we see technology as a potential
reformatory tool which can either
reaffirm existing power structures and
accelerate the neoliberal attitude of
museum practices or liberate and support
more inclusive and respectful structures
and in the end what we are mostly
interesting interested in when talking
about museums as an instrument for the
self display of democratic and
pluralistic societies so we are happy to
talk a little bit more and later on on
what exactly we are now planning in
Tanzania and the following discussion if
we have more time and as promised also
in the beginning you want to close with
this video it's some remixes of the data
we found in the internet of the
Nefertiti HEC
[Music]
[Applause]
you
[Music]